```toml
[advisory]
id = "RUSTSEC-2026-0193"
package = "ammonia"
date = "2026-06-30"
categories = ["format-injection"]
keywords = ["html", "xss"]
aliases = ["GHSA-9jh8-v38h-cvhr"]

[versions]
patched = [">= 4.1.3", ">= 4.0.2, < 4.1.0", ">= 3.3.2, < 4.0.0"]
```

# mXSS in ammonia via MathML `annotation-xml` encoding strip

If a certain set of MathML tags are enabled, an attacker can inject arbitrary JavaScript code into the user's browser.

The `annotation-xml` tag has slightly different behavior than the other "integration point"
tags in MathML and SVG, but ammonia didn't handle it, so it didn't correctly
strip the namespace-incompatible tags.

This vulnerability only has an effect when the `math` and `annotation-xml` tags
are both enabled, but the `encoding` attribute is disabled, because it relies
on the following sequence of steps:

1. User writes code like `<math><annotation-xml encoding="text/html"><gadget></annotation-xml></math>`.
2. Namespace filtering checks the DOM, and it passes. `<gadget>` is parsed as HTML.
3. Attribute filter strips it down to `<math><annotation-xml><gadget></annotation-xml></math>`. Because the encoding attribute is gone, `<gadget>` is now parsed as MathML.
4. The gadget is written in such a way that it exploits the parsing differences between HTML and MathML.

Additionally, the gadget can only be written using a tag that is parsed as raw text in HTML.
These [elements] are:

* title
* textarea
* xmp
* iframe
* noembed
* noframes
* plaintext
* noscript
* style
* script

Applications that do not explicitly allow any of these tags should not be affected, since none are allowed by default.

[elements]: https://github.com/servo/html5ever/blob/045a0378f2b0f8d4a350793899cf722a2a9b3d11/html5ever/src/tree_builder/rules.rs

---

**Discovered by:** ivan0912 (YesWeHack) · **Date:** 2026-06-29 · Found via local differential analysis and source review of ammonia's sanitisation pipeline; no third-party systems were tested.
