```toml
[advisory]
id = "RUSTSEC-0000-0000"
package = "below"
date = "2025-03-12"
url = "https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2025/03/12/1"
# Valid categories: "code-execution", "crypto-failure", "denial-of-service", "file-disclosure"
# "format-injection", "memory-corruption", "memory-exposure", "privilege-escalation"
categories = ["privilege-escalation"]
aliases = ["CVE-2025-27591"]
cvss = "CVSS:4.0/AV:L/AC:L/AT:P/PR:L/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N"

[versions]
patched = [">= 0.9.0"]
```

# World Writable Directory in /var/log/below Allows Local Privilege Escalation

Below [2] is a tool for recording and displaying system data like
hardware utilization and cgroup information on Linux. In January 2025,
Below was packaged and submitted to openSUSE Tumbleweed. Below runs as a
systemd service with `root` privileges. The SUSE security team monitors
additions and changes to systemd service unit files in openSUSE
Tumbleweed, and through this we noticed problematic log directory
permissions applied in Below's code.

The version we reviewed in this context was v0.8.1 [3] and this report
is based on that version.

Upstream released a bugfix in version v0.9.0 [4] and a security advisory
[5] on GitHub.

## 2) Symlink Attack in `/var/log/below/error_root.log`

Below's systemd service runs with full `root` privileges. It attempts to
create a world-writable directory in `/var/log/below`. Even if the
directory already exists, the Rust code ensures [6] that it receives
mode 0777 permissions:

```
    if perm.mode() & 0o777 != 0o777 {
        perm.set_mode(0o777);
        match dir.set_permissions(perm) {
            Ok(()) => {}
            Err(e) => {
                bail!(
                    "Failed to set permissions on {}: {}",
                    path.to_string_lossy(),
                    e
                );
            }
        }
    }
```

This logic leads to different outcomes depending on the packaging on Linux
distributions:

- in openSUSE Tumbleweed the directory was packaged with 01755
  permissions (below.spec [7] line 73), thus causing the
  `set_permissions()` call to run, resulting in a directory with mode
  0777 during runtime.
- in Gentoo Linux the directory is created with mode 01755 resulting in
  the same outcome as on openSUSE Tumbleweed (below.ebuild [8]).  Where
  the 01755 mode is exactly coming from is not fully clear, maybe the
  `cargo` build process assigns these permissions during installation.
- in Fedora Linux the directory is packaged with 01777 permissions, thus
  the `set_permissions()` code will not run, because the `if` condition
  masks out the sticky bit. The directory stays at mode 01777
  (rust-below.spec [9]).
- the Arch Linux AUR package [10] (maybe wrongly) does not pre-create
  the log directory. Thus the `set_permissions()` code will run and
  create the directory with mode 0777.

Below creates a log file in `/var/log/below/error_root.log` and assigns
mode 0666 to it. This (somewhat confusingly) happens via a `log_dir`
variable [11], which has been changed to point to the `error_root.log`
file. The 0666 permission assignment to the logfile happens in
`logging::setup()` [12], also accompanied by a somewhat strange comment
in the code.

A local unprivileged attacker can stage a symlink attack in this
location and cause an arbitrary file in the system to obtain 0666
permissions, likely leading to a full local root exploit, if done right,
e.g. by pointing the symlink to `/etc/shadow`. Even if the file already
exists it can be removed and replaced by a symlink, because of the
world-writable directory permissions. The attack is thus not limited to
scenarios in which the file has not yet been created by Below.

We believe the actual intention of this code might have been to assign
mode 01777 (i.e. carrying a sticky bit). The sticky bit is neither
contained in the `if` condition nor in the `set_permissions()` call,
though. With the sticky bit set the Linux kernel's `protected_symlinks`
logic, which is enabled on most Linux distributions, would protect from
symlink attacks.

## 3) Further Issues

Even on Fedora Linux, where `/var/log/below` has "safe" 01777
permissions, there is a time window during which problems can arise. As
long as `below.service` has not been started, another local user can
pre-create `/var/log/below/error_root.log` and e.g. place a FIFO special
file there. This will pose a local DoS against the below service, since
it will fail to open the path and thus fail to start.

If `/var/log/below` were to be deleted for any reason, then Below would
still recreate it using the bad 0777 mode permissions, which can also
happen on distributions that initially package `/var/log/below` using
permissions that do not trigger the `set_permissions()` call in Below's
code.

Below applies many world-writable and world-readable permissions under
`/var/log/below`. This seems a strange choice. For some reason the
internal state data of Below is also stored within the log directory in
`/var/log/below/store`. The data is fully world-readable, which could
result in information leaks, if Below stores system information there
that would not otherwise be accessible to unprivileged local users. We
did not check if this applies, though. By pre-creating this directory
before `below.service` runs for the first time, an unprivileged user can
control all of its contents, possibly violating the integrity of Below
in various ways.

The world-writable logfile `error_root.log` makes no sense to us as
well. Why should arbitrary users in the system be able to modify the log
data of Below? This allows log spoofing by local users. Even making the
logfile world-readable is considered bad style by some people these
days. Why `/var/log/below` should be world-writable in the first place
is also unclear to us. Ideally only `root` or a dedicated `below`
service user should be allowed to write there.

## 4) Bugfix

Upstream published a bugfix in commit 10e73a21d67 [13] which is part of
Below v0.9.0 [4]. The commit basically removes all problematic
permission assignments from the code, stating that these directories are
better setup by systemd. This seems to refer to an added systemd
directive `LogsDirectory=below` in the `below.service` file.

With this change no world-writable directories or files should turn up
in `/var/log/below` anymore, and the most severe issues from this report
are addressed. The possible matter of world-readable log and store files
remains, though.

We did not get any details from upstream about the design decisions in
Below that led to this issue or about any further changes that upstream
intends to perform to improve security in this area.

## 5) CVE Assignment

Upstream assigned CVE-2025-27591 for this issue.

## 6) Hardening Suggestions

It could be considered to apply hardening directives in Below's systemd
service unit that prevent some attack types. Most prominently,
restricting write access for the daemon to a range of well known
locations comes to mind.

## 7) Timeline

2025-01-20: We noticed the issue and started tracking it privately in bsc#1236109 [14].
2025-01-20: We shared the information with Meta via its security bug report system [15], offering coordinated disclosure.
2025-01-21: We received an initial automated reply from Meta.
2025-02-21: We received an update that the report would be forwarded to the appropriate engineering team.
2025-02-26: We were awarded a bug bounty for the report but did not receive any details about the publication, bugfix or CVE assignment. We will donate the bug bounty to open source projects and other non-profit organizations.
2025-02-26: Our Below packager updated the openSUSE Tumbleweed package to the newly released version v0.9.0 [4], which happened to already contain the bugfix for the issue.
2025-02-27: We identified commit 10e73a21d67 [13] as the likely bugfix and inquired with upstream once more about technical details and whether this is the complete bugfix they intended to apply.
2025-02-28: We received an automated reply about the bugfix status of the issue.
2025-03-03: We received a confirmation that commit 10e73a21d67 [13] is the intended bugfix and that further steps (including a possible CVE assignment) are handled internally.
2025-03-03: We inquired whether it is okay for us to publish the full report at this time.
2025-03-07: We did not get a response about publication from upstream so far. Since the bugfix was public but not clearly marked as a security issue we shared this report with the linux-distros [16] mailing list, suggesting an embargo of 5 days before general publication.
2025-03-08: Michel Lind, a member of the linux-distros mailing list who is also a Meta engineer, involved upstream internally about the impending disclosure.
2025-03-08: Upstream reached out to us stating that a GitHub security advisory on the issue is planned in the following week. They also shared the CVE assignment with us. They asked us to postpone publication on our end until that happens.
2025-03-10: We responded that postponing publication is okay with us. We also pointed out that the linux-distros mailing list has a maximum embargo period of 14 days, which limited the maximum postponement to 2025-03-21.
2025-03-12: Upstream published a GitHub advisory [5]. Thus general publication could happen on the date originally proposed by us on the linux-distros mailing list.

[1]: https://security.opensuse.org/2025/03/12/below-world-writable-log-dir.html
[2]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below
[3]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below/releases/tag/v0.8.1
[4]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below/releases/tag/v0.9.0
[5]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below/security/advisories/GHSA-9mc5-7qhg-fp3w
[6]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below/blob/v0.8.1/below/src/main.rs#L379
[7]: https://build.opensuse.org/projects/openSUSE:Factory/packages/below/files/below.spec?expand=1&rev=5e78e7f743f87bea8648eeee673c649b
[8]: https://github.com/gentoo/gentoo/blob/master/sys-process/below/below-0.8.1-r1.ebuild#L344
[9]: https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/rust-below/blob/6ae58353b5d12e58462425c20a2aedfbae2e769a/f/rust-below.spec#_108
[10]: https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/tree/PKGBUILD?h=below#n34
[11]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below/blob/v0.8.1/below/src/main.rs#L552
[12]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below/blob/v0.8.1/below/src/open_source/logging.rs#L68
[13]: https://github.com/facebookincubator/below/commit/10e73a21d67baa2cd613ee92ce999cda145e1a83
[14]: https://bugzilla.suse.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1236109
[15]: https://bugbounty.meta.com
[16]: https://oss-security.openwall.org/wiki/mailing-lists/distros
