```toml
[advisory]
id = "RUSTSEC-0000-0000"
package = "tough"
date = "2025-03-27"
url = "https://github.com/awslabs/tough/security/advisories/GHSA-5vmp-m5v2-hx47"
references = ["https://aws.amazon.com/security/security-bulletins/AWS-2025-007/"]

cvss = "CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:H/AT:N/PR:H/UI:P/VC:N/VI:H/VA:N/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N"
aliases = ["CVE-2025-2885","GHSA-5vmp-m5v2-hx47"]
license = "CC-BY-4.0"

[versions]
patched = [">= 0.20.0"]
```

# Summary

When updating the root role, a TUF client must establish a trusted
line of continuity to the latest set of keys. While sequentially
downloading new versions of the root metadata file, tough will not
check that the root object version it received was the next
sequential version from the previously trusted root metadata.

# Impact

The tough client will trust an outdated or rotated root role in
the event that an actor with control of the storage medium of a
trusted TUF repository inappropriately replaced the contents of
one of the root metadata files with an adequately signed previous
version. As a result, tough could trust content associated with
a previous root role.

Impacted versions: < v0.20.0

# Patches

A fix for this issue is available in tough version 0.20.0 and later.
Customers are advised to upgrade to version 0.20.0 or later and
ensure any forked or derivative code is patched to incorporate the new fixes.

# Workarounds

There is no recommended work around. Customers are advised to upgrade
to version 0.20.0 or the latest version.

# References

If you have any questions or comments about this advisory we ask that you contact
AWS/Amazon Security via our vulnerability reporting page [1] or directly via
email to aws-security@amazon.com. Please do not create a public GitHub issue.

[1] Vulnerability reporting page: https://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting

# Acknowledgement

These issues were identified by the TUF-Conformance project. We
would like to thank Google for collaborating on this issue
through the coordinated vulnerability disclosure process.
