```toml
[advisory]
id = "RUSTSEC-0000-0000"
package = "rustix"
date = "2023-10-28"
url = "https://github.com/bytecodealliance/rustix/security/advisories/GHSA-c827-hfw6-qwvm"

categories = ["denial-of-service"]
aliases = ["GHSA-c827-hfw6-qwvm"]

[versions]
patched = [">= 0.35.15, < 0.36", ">= 0.36.16, < 0.37", ">= 0.37.25, < 0.38", ">= 0.38.19"]
unaffected = ["<= 0.35.11"]

[affected]
os = ["linux"]
functions = { "rustix::fs::Dir" = [">= 0.35.12, < 0.35.15", ">= 0.36.0, < 0.36.16", ">= 0.37.0, < 0.37.25", ">= 0.38.0, < 0.38.19"] }
```

# `rustix::fs::Dir` iterator with the `linux_raw` backend can cause memory explosion

## Summary

When using rustix::fs::Dir using the linux_raw backend, it's possible for the
iterator to "get stuck" when an IO error is encountered. Combined with a memory
over-allocation issue in rustix::fs::Dir::read_more, this can cause quick and
unbounded memory explosion (gigabytes in a few seconds if used on a hot path)
and eventually lead to an OOM crash of the application.

## Details

### Discovery

The symptoms were initially discovered in imsnif/bandwhich#284. That post has lots of details of our investigation. cyqsimon was able to track the bug to rustix, and konnorandrews figured out the offending code. See his post and the Discord thread for details.

### Diagnosis

This issue is caused by the combination of two independent bugs:

1. Stuck iterator

* The rustix::fs::Dir iterator can fail to halt after encountering an IO error, causing the caller to be stuck in an infinite loop.

2. Memory over-allocation

* Dir::read_more incorrectly grows the read buffer unconditionally each time it is called, regardless of necessity.

Since <Dir as Iterator>::next calls Dir::read, which in turn calls Dir::read_more, this means an IO error encountered during reading a directory can lead to rapid and unbounded growth of memory use.

## PoC

```
fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    // create a directory, get a FD to it, then unlink the directory but keep the FD
    std::fs::create_dir("tmp_dir")?;
    let dir_fd = rustix::fs::openat(
        rustix::fs::CWD,
        rustix::cstr!("tmp_dir"),
        rustix::fs::OFlags::RDONLY | rustix::fs::OFlags::CLOEXEC,
        rustix::fs::Mode::empty(),
    )?;
    std::fs::remove_dir("tmp_dir")?;

    // iterator gets stuck in infinite loop and memory explodes
    rustix::fs::Dir::read_from(dir_fd)?
        // the iterator keeps returning `Some(Err(_))`, but never halts by returning `None`
        // therefore if the implementation ignores the error (or otherwise continues
        // after seeing the error instead of breaking), the loop will not halt
        .filter_map(|dirent_maybe_error| dirent_maybe_error.ok())
        .for_each(|dirent| {
            // your happy path
            println!("{dirent:?}");
        });

    Ok(())
}
```

## Impact

If a program tries to access a directory with its file descriptor after the file
has been unlinked (or any other action that leaves the Dir iterator in the stuck
state), and the implementation does not break after seeing an error, it can cause
a memory explosion.

As an example, Linux's various virtual file systems (e.g. /proc, /sys) can
contain directories that spontaneously pop in and out of existence. Attempting
to iterate over them using rustix::fs::Dir directly or indirectly (e.g. with
the procfs crate) can trigger this fault condition if the implementation
decides to continue on errors.

An attacker knowledgeable about the implementation details of a vulnerable target
can therefore try to trigger this fault condition via any one or a combination of
several available APIs. If successful, the application host will quickly run out
of memory, after which the application will likely be terminated by an OOM killer,
leading to denial of service.